Add language extensions lab (#229)
aws-samples/cfn101-workshop: content/intermediate/templates/language-extensions/index.md

For simplicity, in this exercise you'll add the dashboard to your existing template, so you can focus on the language extension you'll use. Normally, you would create a separate template for your dashboards, for considerations on best practices that also include organizing your stacks by [lifecycle and ownership](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#organizingstacks): you would want to, for example, create a separate template to decouple the lifecycle of your CloudWatch dashboard from the lifecycle of your EC2 instance.

You'll now update the `language-extensions.yaml` template to add a CloudWatch dashboard with CPU utilization data of the EC2 instance you created in part 1. To do so, follow steps shown next:

1. Open the `language-extensions.yaml` template. Underneath `Resources` section, add `Dashboard`:

```yaml
  Dashboard:
    Type: AWS::CloudWatch::Dashboard
    Properties:
      DashboardBody:
        Fn::ToJsonString:
          start: -PT6H
          periodOverride: inherit
          widgets:
            - type: metric
              x: 0

>               "y": 7

Reviewer: Remove quotes.

Reviewer: Sorry, my bad - see my comment: https://github.com/aws-samples/cfn101-workshop/pull/229/files#r1192530058

Save the template file, and proceed to the next steps.

You will now update your existing stack that you created in Part 1. To do so, follow steps shown next:

1. Navigate to the [AWS CloudFormation Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/).
2. From the left navigation panel, select the **Stacks** tab. Select the `language-extensions` stack you created earlier.
3. From the top-right menu, choose **Update**.
4. Under **Prerequisite - Prepare template,** select **Replace current template** and choose **Upload a template file**. Select **Choose file**, and supply the `language-extensions.yaml` template you updated earlier, and then choose **Next**.
5. On **Specify Stack details** page, leave the configuration as it is. Choose **Next**.
6. On **Configure Stack options**, leave the configuration as it is. Choose **Next**.
7. On **Review** page, review the contents of the page. At the bottom of the page, choose to acknowledge all the capabilities shown in the **Capabilities and transforms** section.
8. Choose **Submit**. Refresh the stack creation page until you see the stack in the `UPDATE_COMPLETE` status.

> 9. Navigate to [CloudWatch console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/). From the right navigation panel, choose **Dashboards**, **** and then **Dashboard** from the right navigation panel. You will see the dashboard you just created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Navigate to the [CloudWatch console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/). From the right navigation panel, choose **Dashboards**. You should see the dashboard you just created.
```

> Congratulations! You have learned how to use `Fn::ToJsonString`  to transform JSON objects into escaped JSON strings as inputs to resource properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have learned how to use `Fn::ToJsonString` to transform JSON objects into escaped JSON strings as inputs to resource properties.
```

### Challenge

> In this exercise, you’ll use the knowledge gained from earlier parts of this lab. Your task is to create an [Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) bucket with its deletion policy set to a parameterized value of  `Delete`, and create a CloudWatch dashboard that reflects the number of objects in the bucket. Use the `language-extensions-challenge.yaml` template, and add content to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this exercise, you’ll use the knowledge gained from earlier parts of this lab. Your task is to create an [Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) bucket with its deletion policy set to a parameterized value of `Delete`, and create a CloudWatch dashboard that reflects the number of objects in the bucket. Use the `language-extensions-challenge.yaml` template, and add content to it.
```

Refer to the [CloudWatch Dashboard structure](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/CloudWatch-Dashboard-Body-Structure.html) mentioned in Part 2 of the lab as you describe the dashboard in your CloudFormation template. For the `metrics` field underneath `properties`, use `[[AWS/S3, NumberOfObjects, StorageType, AllStorageTypes, BucketName, !Ref S3Bucket]]` to denote the `NumberOfObjects` metrics in an S3 bucket for your CloudWatch widget. Please note that [S3 storage metrics are reported once per day](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/cloudwatch-monitoring.html) at no additional cost, so you may not see them when you are running the lab.

:::expand{header="Need a hint?"}
* Recall using the language extension in Part 1 of the lab to use a parameter for the deletion policy.
* Don’t forget to reference the deletion policy parameter in your S3 bucket resource.

> * Additionally, recall how you added a CloudWatch dashboard earlier, add use the `NumberOfObjects`  metrics for the relevant field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Additionally, recall how you added a CloudWatch dashboard earlier, add use the `NumberOfObjects` metrics for the relevant field.
```

:::

> :::expand{header="Want to see the solution?"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::expand{header="Want to see the solution?"}
* Add the `Transform: AWS::LanguageExtensions` line to the template like you did in Part 1 of the lab.
```

* Edit the `Parameters` section to add the `DeletionPolicyParameter` like you did in Part 1 of the lab.
* Underneath the `Resources` section for the `S3Bucket` resource, add the `DeletionPolicy` attribute with a reference to the parameter.
* Underneath the `Resources` section, add the `Dashboard` resource.

> * You can find the full language-extensions-solution in the template `language-extensions-solution.yaml` in the `code/solutions/language-extensions` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can find the full challenge solution in the template called `language-extensions-solution.yaml`, that is in the `code/solutions/language-extensions` directory.
```

* Use the updated template, and create a new `language-extensions-solution` stack to create the S3 bucket and the dashboard.
:::

### Clean up

You will now tear down the resources you created:

1. Navigate to the [AWS CloudFormation Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/).
2. On the **Stacks** page in the CloudFormation console, select the stack you created in **Part 1:** `language-extensions`.
3. In the stack details pane, choose **Delete**.  Select **Delete stack** when prompted.
4. On the **Stacks** page in the CloudFormation console, select the stack you created in **Challenge** section: `language-extensions-solution`.
5. In the stack details pane, choose **Delete**.  Select **Delete stack** when prompted.

### Conclusion

> Great work! You learned how to incorporate `AWS::LanguageExtensions` in your CloudFormation template. Please feel free to leave us your feedback at our [Language Discussion GitHub repository](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cfn-language-discussion). We welcome your contributions to RFCs!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great work! You learned how to incorporate `AWS::LanguageExtensions` in your CloudFormation templates. Please feel free to provide feedback for RFCs in the [Language Discussion GitHub repository](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cfn-language-discussion). We welcome your contributions!
```
